[IMP] general: users doc rewrite (#8557)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/users.rst

Users
=====

> Odoo defines a *user* as someone who has access to a database to perform daily tasks. An

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo defines a *user* as someone who has access to a database. An
```
Optional for simplification

administrator can add as many users as the company needs and, in order to restrict the type of

> information each user can access, rules can be applied. Users and access rights can be added and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information each user can access, rules can be applied to each user. Users and access rights can be added and
```

changed at any point.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`users/language`
   - :doc:`users/access_rights`
   - :ref:`access-rights/superuser`
   - :ref:`access-rights/groups`

.. _users/add-individual:

Add individual users
====================

> Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> Users --> Manage Users` and click on :guilabel:`Create`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add new users, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> Manage Users` and click on :guilabel:`Create`.
```

.. image:: users/manage-users.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the settings page emphasizing the manage users field in Odoo.

> Fill in the form with the needed information. Under the tab :doc:`Access Rights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in the form with all required information. Under the :doc:`Access Rights
```

> <users/access_rights>` choose the group within each application the user can have access to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<users/access_rights>` tab, choose the group within each application the user can have access to.
```

The list of applications shown is based on the applications installed on the database.

.. image:: users/new-user.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a user's form emphasizing the access rights tab in Odoo.

> After filling out all the necessary fields on the page, click :guilabel:`Save`. Then, an invitation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After filling out all the necessary fields on the page, click :guilabel:`Save`. An invitation
```

email is automatically sent to the user, using the email in the :guilabel:`Email Address` field. The
user must click on the link included in the email to accept the invitation and to create a database
login.

.. image:: users/invitation-email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a user's form with a notification that the invitation email has been sent in Odoo.

.. warning::

>    If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database will automatically update to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database automatically updates to
```

>    reflect the added user(s). If the company is on a yearly or multi-year plan, an expiration banner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   reflect the added users. If the company is on a yearly or multi-year plan, an expiration banner
```
I believe we were told not to use (s) and just use the -s. Feel free to double check me on that though

   will appear in the database. An upsell quotation can be created by clicking the banner to update

>    the subscription or `send a support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ to resolve the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the subscription. Alternatively, `send a support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ to resolve the issue.
```

User type
---------

With the :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` activated, *User Type* can be selected. There are
three types of users: :guilabel:`Internal User`, :guilabel:`Portal`, and :guilabel:`Public`.

.. tip::
   Users are considered internal database users. Portal users are external users who only have
   access to the database portal to view records. See the documentation on :doc:`users/portal`.

>    Public users are those visiting websites and using the website frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Public users are those visiting websites via the website's frontend.
```

.. image:: users/user-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a user's form in developer mode emphasizing the user type field in Odoo.

The *Portal* and *Public* user options do not allow the administrator to choose access rights. These

> users have specific ones pre-set (such as record rules and restricted menus) and usually do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users have specific access rights pre-set (such as record rules and restricted menus) and usually do not
```

select :guilabel:`Archive` from the resulting drop-down menu.

.. danger::
   Never deactivate the main/administrator user (admin). Making changes to admin users can have a
   detrimental impact on the database. This includes *impotent admin*, which means that no user in
   the database can make changes to the access rights. For this reason, Odoo recommends contacting
   an Odoo Business Analyst, or our Support Team, before making changes.

Too many users error
--------------------

If there are more users in an Odoo database than provisioned in the Odoo Enterprise subscription,
the following message should be displayed.

.. image:: users/add-more-users.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Too many users on a database error message.

When the message appears, the database administrator has 30 days to act before the database expires.
The countdown is updated every day.

To resolve the issue, either:

- Add more users to the subscription by clicking the :guilabel:`Upgrade your subscription` link
  displayed in the message to validate the upsell quotation and pay for the extra users.
- :ref:`Deactivate users <users/deactivate>` and reject the upsell quotation.

.. warning::

>    If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database will automatically update to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database automatically updates to
```

>    reflect the added user(s). If the company is on a yearly or multi-year plan, an expiration banner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   reflect the added users. If the company is on a yearly or multi-year plan, an expiration banner
```

   will appear in the database. An upsell quotation can be created by clicking the banner to update

>    the subscription or `send a support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ to resolve the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the subscription. Alternatively, `send a support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ to resolve the issue.
```

Once the database has the correct number of users, the expiration message disappears automatically
after a few days, when the next verification occurs.

.. _users/passwords-management:

Password management
===================

Password management is an important part of enabling users autonomous access to the database at all
times. Odoo offers a few different methods to reset a user's password.

.. tip::
   Odoo has a setting to specify the length needed for a password. This setting can be accessed by
   navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Permissions` and entering the password length in
   the :guilabel:`Minimum Password Length` field. By default the value is `8`.

.. image:: users/minimum-password-length.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Minimum Password Length highlighted in the Permissions section of General Settings.

.. _users/reset-password:

Reset password
--------------

> Many times the user would like to reset their own password to give a sense of security, in that they
> are the only ones with access to the password. Odoo offers two different reset options, one where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, users might wish to reset their personal password for added security, so they
are the only ones with access to the password. Odoo offers two different reset options: one
```

> the user initiates the reset and another where the administrator triggers a reset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
initiated by the user to reset the password, and another where the administrator triggers a reset.
```

.. _users/reset-password-login:

Enable password reset from login page
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to enable/disable password resets directly from the login page. This action is

> completed by the individual user and by default this setting is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
completed by the individual user, and this setting is enabled by default.
```

> To change this setting, go to :menuselection:`Settings --> Permissions`, activate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change this setting, go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Permissions`, activate
```

:guilabel:`Password Reset`, and then click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: users/password-reset-login.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabling Password Reset in Odoo Settings

On the login page click :guilabel:`Reset Password` to initiate the password reset process and have
a reset-token sent to the email on file.

.. image:: users/password-reset.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Login screen on Odoo.com with the password reset option highlighted.

.. _users/reset-password-email:

Send reset instructions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> Users & Companies --> Users`, select the user out of the list and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users & Companies --> Users`, select the user out of the list and
```

click on :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` on its user form. An email is automatically
sent to them.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` button only appears if the Odoo invitation email
   has already been confirmed by the user. Otherwise, a :guilabel:`Re-send Invitation Email` button
   will appear.

This email contains all the instructions needed to reset the password, along with a link redirecting
the user to an Odoo login page.

.. image:: users/password-reset-email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of an email with a password reset link for an Odoo account

.. _users/change-password:

Change user password
--------------------

Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> Users  & Companies --> Users` and select a user to access its
form. Click on the :guilabel:`⚙️ Actions` icon and select :guilabel:`Change Password`. Enter a new

> password and confirm by clicking on :guilabel:`Change Password`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
password, and confirm the change by clicking on :guilabel:`Change Password`.
```

.. image:: users/change-password.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Change a user's password on Odoo.

.. note::
   This operation only modifies the password of the users locally and does not affect their odoo.com

>    account. If the odoo.com password needs to be changed, then use the :ref:`send the password reset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   account.
   
   If the odoo.com password needs to be changed, use the :ref:`send the password reset
```

>    instructions <users/reset-password-email>`. Odoo.com passwords will grant access to the *My

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   instructions <users/reset-password-email>`. Odoo.com passwords grant access to the *My
```

   Databases* page and other portal features.

After clicking on :guilabel:`Change Password`, the page is redirected to an Odoo login page where
the database can be re-accessed using the new password.

.. _users/multi-companies:

Multi Companies
===============

The :guilabel:`Multi Companies` field allows an administrator to allow access to multiple companies
for existing users. To configure a multi-company environment for a user, navigate to the user by
going to: :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> Manage users`. Then select the user to
configure with multi-company access.

Under :guilabel:`Multi Companies` set the fields labeled :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` and
:guilabel:`Default Company`.

> The :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` field can contain multiply companies. These will be the companies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` field can contain multiple companies. These will be the companies
```

> the user has access to, and can make edits, according to the set access rights. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the user has access to, and can make edits to, according to the set access rights. The
```

:guilabel:`Default Company` is the company that the user will default to upon logging in each time.
This field can contain one company.

.. warning::

>    Note that if the multi-company access is not handled correctly, it may be the source of a lot of
>    inconsistent multi-company behaviors. Therefore, experienced Odoo users should only make access
>    rights changes to users for multi-company configuration. For technical explanations refer to the
>    developer documentation on :doc:`../../../developer/howtos/company`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If multi-company access is not configured correctly, it could lead to
   inconsistent multi-company behaviors. Because of this, only experienced Odoo users should make access
   rights changes to users for databases with a multi-company configuration. For technical explanations, refer to the
   developer documentation on :doc:`../../../developer/howtos/company`.
```

User type
---------

With the :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` activated, *User Type* can be selected. There are
three types of users: :guilabel:`Internal User`, :guilabel:`Portal`, and :guilabel:`Public`.

.. tip::
   Users are considered internal database users. Portal users are external users who only have
   access to the database portal to view records. See the documentation on :doc:`users/portal`.

   Public users are those visiting websites via the website's frontend.

.. image:: users/user-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a user's form in developer mode emphasizing the user type field in Odoo.

The *Portal* and *Public* user options do not allow the administrator to choose access rights. These
users have specific access rights pre-set (such as record rules and restricted menus) and usually do
not belong to the usual Odoo groups.

.. _users/deactivate:

Deactivate users
================

To archive a user, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> Manage Users`. Then, tick
the checkbox to the left of the user to be archived.

After selecting the appropriate user to be archived, click the :guilabel:`⚙️ Actions` icon, and

> select :guilabel:`Archive` from the resulting drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
select :guilabel:`Archive` from the resulting drop-down menu. Then, click :guilabel:`OK` from the :guilabel:`Confirmation` pop-up window that appears.
```

.. danger::

>    Never deactivate the main/administrator user (admin). Making changes to admin users can have a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **Never** deactivate the main/administrator user (admin). Making changes to admin users can have a
```

   detrimental impact on the database. This includes *impotent admin*, which means that no user in
   the database can make changes to the access rights. For this reason, Odoo recommends contacting
   an Odoo Business Analyst, or our Support Team, before making changes.

> Too many users error

Reviewer 2: Error: too many users

--------------------

If there are more users in an Odoo database than provisioned in the Odoo Enterprise subscription,

> the following message should be displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the following message is displayed.
```

.. image:: users/add-more-users.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Too many users on a database error message.

When the message appears, the database administrator has 30 days to act before the database expires.
The countdown is updated every day.

To resolve the issue, either:

- Add more users to the subscription by clicking the :guilabel:`Upgrade your subscription` link

>   displayed in the message to validate the upsell quotation and pay for the extra users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  displayed in the message to validate the upsell quotation, and pay for the extra users.
```

> - :ref:`Deactivate users <users/deactivate>` and reject the upsell quotation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :ref:`Deactivate users <users/deactivate>`, and reject the upsell quotation.
```

.. warning::
   If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database automatically updates to reflect
   the added users. If the company is on a yearly or multi-year plan, an expiration banner appears
   in the database. An upsell quotation can be created by clicking the banner to update the

>    subscription. Alternatively, `send a support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ to resolve the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   subscription. Alternatively, users can `send a support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ to resolve the issue.
```

Once the database has the correct number of users, the expiration message disappears automatically
after a few days, when the next verification occurs.

.. _users/passwords-management:

Password management
===================

> Password management is an important part of enabling users autonomous access to the database at all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Password management is an important part of granting users autonomous access to the database at all
```

times. Odoo offers a few different methods to reset a user's password.

.. tip::
   Odoo has a setting to specify the length needed for a password. This setting can be accessed by

>    navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Permissions` and entering the password length in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Permissions section`, and entering the desired password length in
```

   the :guilabel:`Minimum Password Length` field. By default the value is `8`.

.. image:: users/minimum-password-length.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Minimum Password Length highlighted in the Permissions section of General Settings.

.. _users/reset-password:

Reset password
--------------

Sometimes, users might wish to reset their personal password for added security, so they are the
only ones with access to the password. Odoo offers two different reset options: one initiated by the
user to reset the password, and another where the administrator triggers a reset.

.. _users/reset-password-login:

Enable password reset from login page
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to enable/disable password resets directly from the login page. This action is
completed by the individual user, and this setting is enabled by default.

> To change this setting, go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Permissions`, activate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change this setting, go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Permissions section`, activate
```

:guilabel:`Password Reset`, and then click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: users/password-reset-login.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabling Password Reset in Odoo Settings

> On the login page click :guilabel:`Reset Password` to initiate the password reset process and have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the login page, click :guilabel:`Reset Password` to initiate the password reset process, and have
```

a reset-token sent to the email on file.

.. image:: users/password-reset.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Login screen on Odoo.com with the password reset option highlighted.

.. _users/reset-password-email:

Send reset instructions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users & Companies --> Users`, select the user out of the list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users & Companies --> Users`, select the user from the list,
```

> and click on :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` on its user form. An email is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and click on :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` on the user form. An email is
```

automatically sent to them.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` button only appears if the Odoo invitation email
   has already been confirmed by the user. Otherwise, a :guilabel:`Re-send Invitation Email` button

>    will appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   appears.
```

This email contains all the instructions needed to reset the password, along with a link redirecting
the user to an Odoo login page.

.. image:: users/password-reset-email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of an email with a password reset link for an Odoo account

.. _users/change-password:

Change user password
--------------------

Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users  & Companies --> Users`, and select a user to access

> its form. Click on the :guilabel:`⚙️ Actions` icon and select :guilabel:`Change Password`. Enter a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
its form. Click on the :guilabel:`⚙️ Actions` icon, and select :guilabel:`Change Password` from, the resulting drop-down menu. Enter a
```

> new password, and confirm the change by clicking on :guilabel:`Change Password`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
new password in the :guilabel:`New Password` column of the :guilabel:`Change Password` pop-up window that appears, and confirm the change by clicking :guilabel:`Change Password`.
```

.. image:: users/change-password.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Change a user's password on Odoo.

.. note::

>    This operation only modifies the password of the users locally and does not affect their odoo.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This operation only modifies the password of the users locally, and does **not** affect their odoo.com
```

   account.

>    If the odoo.com password needs to be changed, then use the :ref:`send the password reset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the odoo.com password needs to be changed, use the :ref:`send the password reset
```

   instructions <users/reset-password-email>`. Odoo.com passwords grant access to the *My Databases*

>    page and other portal features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   page, and other portal features.
```

> After clicking on :guilabel:`Change Password`, the page is redirected to an Odoo login page where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After clicking :guilabel:`Change Password`, the page is redirected to an Odoo login page, where
```

the database can be re-accessed using the new password.

.. _users/multi-companies:

Multi Companies
===============

> The :guilabel:`Multi Companies` field allows an administrator to allow access to multiple companies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Multi Companies` field on a user form allows an administrator to provide access to multiple companies
```

> for existing users. To configure a multi-company environment for a user, navigate to the user by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for existing users. To configure a multi-company environment for a user, navigate to the desired user by
```

> going to: :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> Manage users`. Then select the user to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
going to: :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users section --> Manage users`. Then, select the user to open their user form, and
```

configure with multi-company access.

> Under :guilabel:`Multi Companies`, set the fields labeled :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under :guilabel:`Multi Companies` in the :guilabel:`Access Rights` tab, set the fields labeled :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` and
```

:guilabel:`Default Company`.

> The :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` field can contain multiple companies. These will be the companies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Allowed Companies` field can contain multiple companies. These are the companies
```

> the user has access to, and can make edits to, according to the set access rights. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the user can access and edit, according to the set access rights. The
```

> :guilabel:`Default Company` is the company that the user will default to upon logging in each time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Default Company` is the company the user defaults to, upon logging in each time.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Login screen on Odoo.com with the password reset option highlighted.

.. _users/reset-password-email:

Send reset instructions to users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Send reset instructions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> Users & Companies --> Users`, select the user out of the list and
click on *Send Password Reset Instructions* on its user form. An email is automatically sent to
them.
Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users & Companies --> Users`, select the user from the list,
and click on :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` on the user form. An email is
automatically sent to them with password reset instructions.

.. note::
   The *Send Password Reset Instructions* button only appears if the Odoo invitation email has
   already been confirmed by the user.
   The :guilabel:`Send Password Reset Instructions` button **only** appears if the Odoo invitation
   email has already been confirmed by the user. Otherwise, a :guilabel:`Re-send Invitation Email`
   button appears.

This email contains all the instructions needed to reset the password, along with a link redirecting
the user to an Odoo login page.

> .. image:: users/password-email.png

Reviewer 3: Make sure to remove the unused `users/password-email.png` image :)

>    :alt: Example of an email with a password reset link for an Odoo account

Reviewer 3: Add a period
```suggestion
   :alt: Example of an email with a password reset link for an Odoo account.
```

> Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users  & Companies --> Users`, and select a user to access

Reviewer 3: Double space
```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users & Companies --> Users`, and select a user to access
```

user can access and edit, according to the set access rights. The :guilabel:`Default Company` is the
company the user defaults to, upon logging in each time. This field can contain only **one**
company.

.. warning::
   If multi-company access is not configured correctly, it could lead to inconsistent multi-company
   behaviors. Because of this, only experienced Odoo users should make access rights changes to
   users for databases with a multi-company configuration. For technical explanations, refer to the
   developer documentation on :doc:`../../../developer/howtos/company`.

.. image:: users/multi-companies.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: View of a user's form emphasizing the multi companies field in Odoo

Reviewer 3: Add a period
```suggestion
   :alt: View of a user's form emphasizing the multi companies field in Odoo.
```

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`companies`

Reviewer 3: No need for bullet point in a single item
```suggestion
   :doc:`companies`
```
